and we can bring you breaking news as
the Rafa Crossing between Egypt and the
Gaza Strip has just opened as you can
see the first trucks loaded with food
water and medicines desperately needed
by civilians inside Gaza are able to
start Crossing it's unclear how long
that Crossing will remain open Israel
had agreed to let the first 20 trucks
through uh but all sides have imposed
conditions on those deliveries Israel
sealed its borders with Gaza so that
means the rougher Crossing between Egypt
and Gaza is the only way right now to
let in vital aid supplies one other big
question is whether foreign passport
holders and duel Nationals at least 600
of whom are American according to the US
state department may be allowed out
through that
Crossing Tamara arfi from anra from the
United Nations organization gave us this
update from her team on the ground in
Gaza very tragic 17 of my un colleagues
were killed in the last two weeks I
would like to remind that unra has
13,000 staff in Gaza most of them almost
all of them minus a few are themselves
gazans from Gaza they for most are
Sheltering in unra schools and unra
shelters and where they are they are
doing all they can so for instance we
have Mobile Medical Teams doing the
rounds in about 90 shelters in the
middle and South regions of Gaza also
bread has continued to arrive to
different shelters thanks to cooperation
with the world food program but as Gaza
is running out of clean water people
have been drinking water that is not fit
for human consumption and this also
causes a huge risk for our ability and
the wfp's ability and the bakery's
ability to continue making bread if
there is no clean water our call has
been very clear clean water has to go
into Gaza fuel must go into Gaza to be
able to nourish the water desalination
plants of unra and UNICEF so that we and
civilians have access to clean drinking
water basic medical supplies we're
talking about paracetamol antibiotics
and Insulin have to go in this is why
when we speak about the Convoy getting
ready to go into Gaza our call is that
this should not be a one-off as welcome
as it is it should be a continuous
unimpeded and safe access of Aid convoys
and Personnel into the entire strip
North middle and South not just the
South and that was Tamara alfi from the
United Nations organization anra uh the
key Aid agency uh on the ground inside
the Gaza Strip talking about the need
for Aid uh as we've been saying already
in the last hour the border crossing
between Egypt and the Gaza Strip has
opened to allow the first trucks of much
needed uh Aid allowed in the
practicalities of which we will
hopefully be finding out as we go along
there's been a tweet in the last moments
from the UK foreign secretary James
cleverly who's been uh moving around the
region in recent days he says uh on the
subject of the trucks going into the
Gaza Strip This Aid is a Lifeline he
says for those who are suffering but it
cannot be a oneoff the UK continues to
push for humanitarian access uh to Gaza
and we will be bringing you up to date
of course uh this morning with those a
trucks going in